I came into this course from a somewhat unique position. I spent 3 ½ years at Carleton as a Computer Science student before recently making the switch over to history. Whenever I tell people about this switch in focus, they are always surprised; they see History and Computer Science as polar opposites. I was struggling to figure out how I could put those years of programming to work in my new historical pursuits. I took this course, hoping it would show me how I could use my programming skills and digital literacy to do historical research or something like that; I didn’t exactly know what to expect. In the end, I think this course turned out to be exactly what I needed it to be. It’s shown me the process with which I can leverage both areas of my academic experience to create something meaningful. 
	
  One of the most significant learning experiences for me happened over the first couple of weeks. Almost all of the tools and methods we used in the first four weeks were new to me. I had done plenty of programming before, so some of the technology wasn’t entirely new, but it was all used in ways that were often surprising to me. The different forms of obtaining and manipulating textual data were especially interesting. I found the process of getting textual data, refining it, then performing distance reading, to be fascinating. Voyant tools was an especially eye-opening experience for me. Playing around with it helped me realize the type of questions that could be answered by this type of analysis and demonstrated it’s value. This realization led to me considering the use of textual and numerical data analysis in the context of historical inquiry. I don’t know why the importance of statistical and mathematical data in the context of historical analysis hadn’t occurred to me before. Perhaps its because most of the data I worked with or produced up to this point has been qualitative. This was the moment where this course clicked for me. I had thought the course was going to be about how to present history in a digital format, but I realized that computers have much more to offer than that, they can completely change the way we view historical data. The number of options that I now had for working with this historical data opened up in front of me, and I felt overwhelmed with the possibilities. 
	
  I enjoyed the collaborative elements of the course as well. Keeping up with the discord was both enjoyable and informative. Knowing that when I got stuck, I could post about it and discuss it with my peers made the process of distance learning feel less at a distance. My only regret is that I didn’t post more. I get anxious when it comes to digital communication, and I thought it held me back. The times I did post, however, were very positive and saved me lots of time since others had solutions I just hadn’t seen. 
	
  This course has been extremely positive for me. I feel like I’ve learned a great deal and have a much better idea of the methods and tools I can use to best leverage my whole skill set. I feel like I’ve done well compared to the learning outcomes, although I could have a more professional online presence but that will come in time. For grade, I think I for sure earned a B or B+, but I really would like an A. I think I stepped it up in the later couple weeks even though I faced struggles that made things very difficult for me, and that I have a good grasp on the course material. I enjoyed this course a lot and only wished we had more time. I’ll for sure be pursuing the content of this course more in my free time, and I think it is a definite path forward for me professionally.  I started this course looking for a link between my computer science background and my historical skills, and I found it, and the connection is even stronger than I thought. 
