# Journal 
## Subject search and data extraction
I have had a much harder time with this than I thought I would. It took me much longer than I thought it would to find good data that I could analyse. Once I found that data I realised that extracting what I wanted from it was also much more time consuming than I had anticipated. The source I had chosen, Orwell’s war diaries, was in the form of a WordPress site. This caused issues for me as downloading it’s pages using wget had unexpected results. It ended up downloading the whole page’s HTML. This would mean I would need to comb through 35 large HTML documents in order to extract the data I need. I could write a python script to use REGEX and extract the text between certain HTML tags. However, I didn’t believe I would have time for that. I want to spend most of my time on analysis and presentation, so I didn’t have as much time to spend on data extraction as I was doing. 

In the end I decided that although I think the best solution would be to make a python script to parse the HTML files into the data I need, I don’t know python well enough to do that in the scope of this assignment. So I am going to copy the entries I need and modfy them manually. This means I need to reduce the scope of my analysis, but this is necessary with my current time restraints. 

I turned Orwell’s second war diary into an excel worksheet. It took a lot of time, but I think it was worth it. Now I can both export it to CSV, or use excel to analyse it. It still needs to be refined a bit, there are ‘[1]’ reference markers that I don’t want affecting my analysis. Those should be easy enough to remove with REGEX. 
